Of all the animation classics from the Walt Disney Company, there is perhaps none that is more celebrated than "The Lion King." Its acclaim is understandable: this is quite simply a glorious work of art."The Lion King" gets off to a fantastic start. The film's opening number, "The Circle of Life," is outstanding. The song lasts for about four minutes, but from the first sound, the audience is floored. Not even National Geographic can capture something this beautiful and dramatic. Not only is this easily the greatest moment in film animation, this is one of the greatest sequences in film history. The story that follows is not as majestic, but the film has to tell a story. Actually, the rest of the film holds up quite well. The story takes place in Africa, where the lions rule. Their king, Mufasa (James Earl Jones) has just been blessed with a son, Simba (Jonathan Taylor Thomas), who goes in front of his uncle Scar (Jeremy Irons) as next in line for the throne. Scar is furious, and sets in motion plans to usurp the throne for himself. After a tragedy occurs and Mufasa is killed, Scar persuades Simba to flee, leaving himself as king. Simba grows up in exile, but he learns that while he can run away from his past, he can never escape it. When viewing the film, it is obvious that "The Lion King" is quite different from its predecessors (and successors). This is an epic story that contains more dramatic power than all the other Disney films combined. While there are definitely some light-hearted moments, there is no denying the dark drama that takes up the bulk of the story. While it could be argued that Disney is the champion of family entertainment, this film is not for the very young. Some of the sequences are very dark and violent, many bordering on frightening, even for the older crowd.The voice actors are terrific. Jonathan Taylor Thomas brings a large dose of innocence to Young Simba. He's mischievous, but also terribly naive. His older counterpart, voiced by Matthew Broderick, equals him. He's older, but no less 